Despite the growth of open data sets that
are available to the public, it can still
be difficult to discover data sets that are
both high quality and have clearly defined
license and usage terms.
To help solve this challenge, IBM created
the Data Asset eXchange, or "DAX,”, which
we’ll introduce in this video.
DAX provides a trusted source for finding
open data sets that are ready for to use in
enterprise applications.
These data sets and which cover a wide variety
of domains, including images, video, text,
and audio.
Because DAX provides a high level of curation
for data set quality, as well as licensing
and usage terms, DAX data sets are typically
easier to adopt, whether in research or commercial
projects.
Wherever possible, DAX aims to make data sets
available under one of the variants of the
CDLACommunity Data License Agreement, in order
to foster data sharing and collaboration.
DAX also provides a single place to access
unique data sets, in particular from IBM Research
projects.
To make it easier for developers to get started
with using the data sets, DAX also provides
tutorials in the form of notebooks that walk
through the basics of data cleaning, pre-processing,
and exploratory analysis.
For some data sets, there are also notebooks
illustrating how to perform more complex analysis,
such as creating charts, statistical analysis,
time-series analysis, training machine learning
models, and integrating deep learning via
using the Model Asset eXchange, (a project
closely related to DAX and also available
on the IBM Developer website).
In this way, DAX helps developers to create
end-to-end analytic and machine learning workflows
and to consume open data and models with confidence
under clearly defined license terms.
Let’s say you’ve found a data set that
might be of interest to you.
On the data set page you can download the
compressed data set archive from cloud storage,
explore the data set using Jupyter Notebooks,
review the data set metadata, such as format,
licensing terms and size, and preview some
parts of the data set.
Most data sets on DAX are complemented by
one or more Jupyter Notebooks that you can
use to perform data cleaning, pre-processing,
and exploratory analysis.
These notebooks run "as is"as is in Watson
Studio, IBM’s Data Sciencedata science platform.
Jupyter Notebooks and Watson Studio are covered
later during in this course.
In this video, you’ve learned about IBM’s
open data repository, the Data Asset eXchange.
In the hands-on lab you’ll have a chance
to explore the repository.